Israel's defense minister has outlined a
plan for the Gaza Strip y of Galant says
his country has no plans to bring
Israeli settlers into Gaza he added that
once Hamas is defeated he believes
Palestinians would be in charge of the
territory Hamas is considered a
terrorist group by many countries
meanwhile thousands turned out in Beirut
for the funeral of the Hamas commander
who was assassinated there earlier this
week MERS lined the streets of beay rout
for the Hamas number two Salah arur
killed by an apparent Israeli drone
strike Israel has not claimed
responsibility for the attack but
nonetheless aruri is the most senior
Hamas leader to be killed since
hostilities began on October
7th the assassination has raised fears
that the conflict could
escalate Israel is even preparing for
that possibility staging Army drills in
the Golan Heights bordering Lebanon in
the North
today we had a drill up here up north uh
with the armored Core and infantry uh
preparing such an event that if we would
need to enter such an engagement with
kah then we would make sure that uh we
would come out on top meanwhile in the
West Bank Israeli forces remain in the
new Shams refugee camp following
overnight raids 29 people were arrested
in the operation and the Army says it
discovered a large cash of weapons being
held at a un run
kindergarten inside this loud speaker we
found a powerful
explosive other cables led to this
explosive which was hidden behind a
curtain and in Gaza Israel continued its
bombardment of the city of Han
Yunis the International Red Crescent
says its gazen headquarters was damaged
by shelling
gaza's Hamas run Health Ministry said 16
people were killed in the attacks
pushing the number of the Dead up to
almost 22 a half thousand since October
7th the Prime Minister told visiting US
senator that Israel would stay the
course uh we're absolutely committed to
achieving our war games that is
destroying our war goals destroying
Hamas releasing our hostages making sure
Gaza doesn't become a threat again and
for that we'll apply maximum power with
maximum
Precision everywhere that's needed US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
about to make another visit to the
region in an attempt to lower the
temperature it is in no one's interest
not Israel's not the regions not the
world's for this conflict to spread
Beyond
Gaza with the humanitarian situation in
Gaza deteriorating the world can only
watch and and hope that that doesn't
happen let's get more from our
correspondent Tanya Kramer who's
following events from Jerusalem welcome
Tanya uh we'll come to the secretary
blinken's visit in a moment first talk
us through Israel's post-war plan for
Gaza outlined Yesterday by the defense
minister yes that's right y galland
Israel's defense minister outlined a
plan but his office stressed that this
is his personal Vision this would have
still to be uh passed through uh the
smaller War cabinet and through the
wider security cabinet to become then an
official uh document so y Galan detailed
uh what he thinks would be best uh uh to
go uh forward uh he said in general that
the war will continue until all the
Israeli hostages that are remaining in
Gaza will be uh released and until uh uh
Israel has dismantled all uh governing
and military capabilities uh of Hamas
but he went also into details saying uh
that there will be a phase uh the next
stage of the war saying that will be a
new uh combat approach uh apparently he
means more targeted approach in the
north and there he's speaking only about
the north because Israel is now focusing
also its operations on the south uh in
the Gaza Strip mainly and he also talked
uh uh without however to say detailing
what this new military approach actually
entails how it would be different uh
from the current approach and he talked
about the post-war Gaza plans he said
that uh um local Palestinian entities
would uh govern the civilian Affairs of
Gaza but it's also very uh unspecified
who he means uh by that he didn't talk
at least about the Palestinian Authority
there uh it seems and he also said there
would be no civilian presence uh
Israelis civilian presence in Gaza yeah
let's talk about that no settlers in
Gaza after this war ends is that
official uh Israeli
[Applause]
policy no I don't think we can talk
about an official Israeli policy yet
when it comes to postwar Gaza again uh
yuf galad the defense minister outlined
that he doesn't see a civilian presence
in Gaza uh likely referring uh to uh the
possibility uh that Israeli settlers
would be resettled there
but we have heard from the far uh
several far-right ministers in the
cabinet mainly the Finance Minister
Finance Minister uh betes smich saying
that he wants to see uh Israeli settlers
uh going back to Gaza Israel had been
with settlements in Gaza until up to
2005 and also we heard uh from others uh
that they would uh encourage as they put
it uh Palestinians to leave basically um
to push out Palestinians
uh uh from uh Gaza so uh as we looked at
this plan from M galland uh it's not a
very detailed yet for example we don't
see uh whether you know when
Palestinians would be allowed to go back
to the north where they should go back
to many are made homeless and of course
there's also the question who will be
rebuilt Gaza who will be uh footing the
bill for that say okay so and then a
brief word then about the visit of the
US Secretary of State what can he
achieve on this fourth VIs visit to the
Middle East since October the
7th well from what we understand uh the
US Secretary Anthony blinkin uh for him
again also the future of Gaza the
postwar Gaza will be certainly also be
on the agenda but uh we've seen the US
pushing for a less intensive War uh to
go into a different phase a more
targeted uh approach by the Israeli
military and also to call for more Aid
going into Gaza and to protect civilians
given the high death toll among uh the
civilian population and of course the
displacement that has been happening
there uh in the past three months uh
with over 85% of the people having been
multiple time displaced according to the
United Nations so I think this will be
also very high on the agenda thank you
for that Tanya Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem